>> Hi.
I'm Georgia Shatki-Hill,
and I'd like
to welcome you to "Living
in Balance on Shakti-Hill."
Today we will be meeting a
woman of vision, Jan Price.
She has had a
near-death experience,
and she has been instrumental
in bringing healing meditation
to the world.
Come join us-- "Living in
Balance on Shatki-Hill."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Jan Price is a woman of vision.
She has written a
wonderful book that
has shared some wisdom,
"The Other Side of Death."
And also, she is
part of the energy
behind a global mind-link of
peace throughout the world.
So welcome, Jan Price.
>> Thank you.
>> It is wonderful
to have you with us,
and I've asked you if you would
share some of this absolute
wisdom that you gained from
a near-death experience.
And the near-death experience
occurred, oh, what?
Three or four years ago?
>> Yes.
Four and a half--
December the 30th, 1993
is my second birthday.
>> Yes.
OK.
>> Actually, I've
been born again.
But it was truly probably
the most fabulous experience
of my life.
I wouldn't change
it for anything.
Because I know something
now that I always believed,
but I know it now.
>> Well, one thing that was
interesting about your having
gone to the other side, many
people who have written books
about it had not already
been on a spiritual path.
But you have spent
the last 20, 30 years
of your life on
a spiritual path,
and really probably
maybe a little bit more
prepared for the adventure?
>> I think so.
It was not a shock to me
from the very beginning.
As many others have experienced,
the first thing I realized--
first, I realized
that I was dead was
when I was above
the body observing
what was going on down below.
And this didn't
surprise me at all.
I understand that others
who have had this experience
have found that
very frightening,
because they had no idea
that they weren't the body.
And I've known for a long
time I'm not the body.
I'm much more than that.
So as I observed the EMS
attendants working on me
and saying, gee, we've
lost her, I thought, oh.
I'm not in the body anymore.
This is going to be really
inconvenient for John,
because he doesn't know
where everything is.
And the next thing I knew,
I was being lifted up
into this unbelievable
blue light.
>> Ah.
You talked about
that blue light.
And just so-- for the
people who don't know,
John is John Randolph Price.
He is your husband and
your partner in life,
and you worried about
leaving him behind.
>> Well, it was like, he doesn't
know where everything is.
You know, I don't have
everything in order.
Poor guy.
It's going to be tough.
He can't find it all.
>> But you went to this
beautiful blue light,
and you said it
was this fabulous--
>> It was like a sea of love.
It was complete and
utter contentment,
a feeling of wholeness.
I would have gladly
stayed there forever.
It was wonderful.
It was just moving into
this space that's divine.
And then quickly,
golden rays of light
started to move through it.
And they brought up memories
of a lifetime, little vignettes
and scenarios from the moment
I was born all the way through,
and showed me some
patterns, guilt patterns
and things that had contributed
to the heart attack, which
is what I had--
the massive heart attack.
Over the years, the
guilt had built up,
and eventually that caused
the arteries to clog.
And this is-- it showed
me how this happened.
And it's one of those
things that we all
need to be aware of.
We don't hold on to
guilt. Of course,
most of it's
subconscious, but we work
on letting those feelings go.
>> So you saw the causes that
had brought you to that point.
So there was an awareness
that you already--
you were already in a learning
situation, and the blue light,
the gold light-- yes.
>> You could see it just
by showing you these little
incidents through your life.
Then I moved into another space
that was brighter and clearer.
And that's when the most
wonderful thing happened.
My dog, Maggie, who had
died three weeks earlier,
came to meet me.
>> And I know that even your
daughter questioned why would
the dog come to meet you?
>> Oh, she says, don't
tell anybody that mother.
No one will believe you.
>> But Maggie was love.
Maggie was unconditional
love, and you had not
released that connection.
>> Love comes out to greet you.
But she was my guide through
many, many dimensions.
And what we finally
realize is that there's not
here and there.
There's lots and lots
of places to do life,
and they're all wonderful.
It's an unending adventure.
And we go where we'll
be most comfortable.
I'll use that word
consciousness again.
Our consciousness
takes us to the place
that is most suitable for us.
>> So in a sense, what I got is
you sort of then realized you
had created what would be your
own kind of heaven that would
be heavenly to Jan?
Or realm or level or dimension?
>> I guess that's
one way to put it.
You definitely--
consciousness continues
to out-picture on every
plane of existence,
just like it does here.
We create our own situations
in this physical world
where we are masquerading
as human beings.
And what happens
to us in life here
is based on our belief system.
It's the same thing in
the other dimensions.
>> OK.
But you also went to
a beautiful place.
Was it the temple of knowledge?
>> Yes.
>> Oh, that's it.
And I've never heard anyone
describe that before.
>> Interestingly enough, I found
someone else who's been there.
>> Oh, really?
>> And actually, there's
probably several.
There is a International
Near-Death Society
that has meetings
in different places.
And we heard of one
in Methodist Hospital
in San Antonio, which is where
they airlifted me after they
brought me back to life.
And so we thought
we'd check that out.
And we went, and it was
a wonderful experience.
Because I found-- and this
relates back to your earlier
question about being
prepared for it--
most aren't.
Most people are very frightened
about their experience.
They're confused about it.
It causes family
problems because people
think they're nuts.
And as each one shared their
story, they came around me
and they would-- tell us
what happened with you.
And so I did.
And this woman is
saying, oh, oh, oh.
She could hardly wait for me
to finish so she could say--
I said, you went there, too?
She said, yes.
What did it look like?
So I described the temple of
knowledge that I had visited.
And she's shaking her head, yes.
She'd been to the same place and
had the same experience, which
was wonderful for both of us.
>> Yes.
Ah.
But what we're
finding the phenomenon
of near-death experience
is happening so much more
because of the abilities
of our medical people
to bring people back.
>> Certainly.
Certainly.
As these techniques have
developed over the years,
they can bring people back if
they get to you soon enough.
Also, I think our 911 system
of handling emergency calls
and the wonderful
medical technicians
that are trained in these things
that can get to you quickly.
And then once they
had come to our house,
and we'd gone through
the death experience,
and they'd gotten the defib--
what do you call those electric
paddle things--
>> Defibrillator.
Yes.
>> --on me several times and
gotten the heart beating again,
they radioed for a helicopter.
And so they zoomed me
to the soccer field
at the high school, and
the helicopter landed.
And in just a few moments,
we were at the high school.
Again, even though
they brought me back,
if they hadn't gotten me to
that heart center that quickly,
perhaps the story would
have ended differently.
>> So then there is a need
really for the groups to come
together of all of the people
who've had the near-death
experiences to share that, but
also for the people who are not
as comfortable with and don't
have the family support.
So that's why there are even
conferences and gatherings.
>> Helping them to understand
what's happened and to share
it.
And of course, more and
more people are having them,
and so it's becoming more known.
But there-- in the
past, years back, people
were afraid to talk about it.
>> Sure.
But it's been happening forever.
>> Yes.
Always, it's gone on.
>> What is the best
part of the other side?
What was the best part of your
having gone to the dimension?
>> I suppose the greatest
adventure for me was the temple
of knowledge.
>> Tell us more about that.
>> It was a beautiful,
white, Grecian-type building.
And it had many
arches around it.
I'm sure I didn't even see
all of it, it was so huge.
But I-- there were many
paths approaching it.
And as I came into it, there
was sort of a porch area
around it where
people were sitting
in different groups talking
about different subjects.
And as I moved through
there, I could see, oh,
there was a group of musicians
that were performing.
There were writers
in a discussion.
Certainly, I would be
drawn to that group.
Different people doing
different things--
the creativity
continues whatever plane
you're on, because that's
our nature to be creative.
And I realized, too,
that on these planes,
information is sort of sent
down into this physical plane
that we live on, and
ideas are picked up
from people on other planes.
And that's how many
inventions and discoveries
and new philosophies develop.
>> But at the same time in
different parts of the world,
also.
Because there is an energy
that comes then from above us
and is put out there,
and different people
can tune into it?
>> Right.
>> I like that.
That was a good explanation.
>> So many times, there will
be simultaneous inventions
or great discoveries at
different parts of the world
by different people.
They picked up on that
energy that's being sent down
from another level.
But as I moved further into
the temple, there were--
I call them wise ones--
people stationed at
different intervals.
And it was sort of like you
could approach them and talk
with them.
And I was drawn to
one in particular
and did go and visit with
this beautiful, masculine-type
figure.
And the first
thing he said to me
is, we know all your
questions, and you'll
have all the answers.
>> You have all the answers.
>> And you'll have
all the answers.
There's nothing you cannot know.
And I visited with
him for a while.
And then he suggested
that I move on
into the center of the
temple and know for myself.
So I moved through various
shades of golden light
to a point where it just
became crystalline clear.
>> That just sounds beautiful.
We're going to take a break,
and when we come back,
the fact that you
came back to us
means that you had
something to share with us.
So if you will stay tuned, we'll
be right back with Jan Price.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you are just joining us,
we're talking with Jan Price,
a woman of vision.
She has been sharing with us
the adventure that she had
in her near-death experience.
And we need to know why
you decided to come back,
and what else you learned
in your adventure there?
So what did you learn that
you needed to bring back?
And what did you feel
as you were there?
>> In the center of this
temple of knowledge that I was
speaking of earlier, I had the
experience of truly becoming
one with all that is,
that which we call God,
of seeing my own
individual soul.
And it was awesome to know
how great and wondrous
we truly are--
myriad lifetimes,
myriad experiences
on various planes
of life, and to know
that this ongoing
activity of life
does never end for any
of us, and that we are
more than this physical body.
We are more than the thinker
part, the brain computer.
We have a mind that's
much faster than that.
And I feel now that
I came back to share
this to be an instrument of
love, an instrument of peace,
and a healer of
fear, so that people
can begin to dispel that
dread, that idea that we end
and there's no more to us.
>> Well, I think that's maybe
the most important thing that
happens when someone has
a near-death experience,
if someone re-experiences
a death in a past life,
the fear goes.
Because fear is so blocking to
our growth and to our feeling
love.
>> Of course, fear is
what causes illness.
It's what causes any of the
maladies of the physical body,
or any of the emotional
problems in life.
Any of these things is.
We can let go of fear, and
the original fear was the fear
that we would cease to be.
>> Sure.
Yes.
>> So when we realize
that that can't happen--
>> That we don't cease to be.
In fact, we're a wonderful,
beautiful energy--
yes.
>> The near-death experiences
that are happening
and the other beautiful
spiritual openings that are
happening with people are
harbingers of what is to come
when we live as the true
light beings we really are,
and the way we were
in the beginning.
You see, death is not
a natural process.
It was never supposed to be.
>> Yes.
But we created that, and so
it's something that we're--
>> Yeah.
Because-- and we were supposed
to come and go at will.
That's the way we
did in the beginning.
And we'll remember
and do that again.
And I came back to tell this.
>> So that's the message,
then, is that there is love,
that we can let go of the fear,
and that it's not a frightening
experience at all.
And the other realm is
wonderful and beautiful.
>> Truly.
Truly.
>> OK.
Now, for people
who don't know you,
you are the president/CEO
of Quartus Foundation.
Tell us a little
bit about the work
that you have been
doing before and after
the near-death experience.
>> Well, Quartus began
with John's first book--
my husband--
"The Superbeings."
And we didn't plan
to do Quartus,
but as he was writing
the book, he just
intuited these words--
call your group Quartus.
And so he put it
in the manuscript
before it was going
to the printers,
that we were going to have
this group called Quartus
and to write for
information about it.
I said, you can't do that.
>> There isn't a Quartus yet.
>> There isn't a group.
He said, I'm
supposed to do this.
I know I am, so it's going in.
I said, well, what are we going
to do if someone wants to know?
And he said, we'll
figure that out.
So we did.
Letters started coming
in after people started
buying the books,
and so we realized
it was to be an organization
on spiritual research
and communication.
It's truly a shared experience
that we're all doing here.
And we're growing together and
understanding the more of us.
And so that's what
Quartus is about.
And we did it through
books, through tapes,
through seminars.
We have a monthly Quartus report
that people can subscribe to.
We have healing groups
that work with others
to come through any challenges
that they have in life.
And we have a lot of fun.
>> Yes.
And I saw-- what I've seen as
far as the different workshops
that you offer, you really take
people at a beginning level who
are first taking
their first steps,
but also the spiritual
research that you've done
has really opened you to some
very powerful, sophisticated,
ancient wisdoms that
people can tap into, too.
>> Very definitely.
>> Fascinating.
>> Yes.
>> There is something that you
have done to change the world,
and you need to share this.
>> Oh.
World Healing Day.
>> Yes, World Healing Day, which
I was so thrilled to be a part
of the first one.
>> You were?
>> Yes.
Yes.
>> Oh, I'm glad to know that.
>> I know.
And there are millions of
people who participated.
So tell us about that.
>> Well, it's truly, of
course, an ongoing event.
But in 1983, we were
flying back from a workshop
we'd done in Alabama.
And on the plane, John just--
these ideas started
to come through it
was time to do world service.
And he was working
on a book at the time
that eventually became what we
call the Planetary Commission.
And the Planetary
Commission was the beginning
of World Healing Day.
And the idea was for
people all over the world
to come together at
the same moment in time
to release their
energy for the healing
and harmonizing of this planet
and all forms of life hereon.
>> That's awesome.
>> And we didn't think that
that might be a difficult thing
to do, because we
didn't think about it.
So John wrote the book, and
we went around telling people
these ideas.
And the first-- it was to be
on December the 31st of 1986
at noon Greenwich time, because
that's the only time that it's
the same day everywhere.
So we released the
idea to people.
But what was amazing is sort
of like maybe everybody had
something encoded in
their brain that went off
when they heard the
words, because it
was a grassroots movement.
People picked it up and
took it around the world.
And by the time it happened,
over 500 million people
came together on December
31, 1986 in Greenwich time
to release their energies
for harmony and peace
in this world.
And they did it in many ways.
Because we didn't say, this
is what you have to do it.
There's a certain
procedure you have to do.
It's like, hey, everybody,
do your own thing.
So we had 77 different
countries involved.
Every major religion to
some extent was involved.
And we had people in Red Square.
They surrounded
the Eiffel Tower.
In Hawaii, they were sending
flowers out onto the water.
In Tahiti, sailboats
went out into the--
it was just an
unbelievable-- whole stadiums
were filled in our country,
here in the United States.
The King Dome in
Seattle was packed,
and whatever the
one is in Denver.
And we were just amazed.
>> Yes, well we gathered--
>> It was awesome.
>> --on the Gulf of Mexico
in Fort Myers beach.
And I think it was
probably a group
of about maybe 20, 25 people.
And there was Tai Chi,
and there was just
some beautiful
meditation in motion.
And when I think about that,
and here we are years later,
and this is an annual event.
But the important thing was the
shift that happened worldwide
toward peace and healing.
>> Well, the Berlin
Wall went down.
>> Yes.
>> And then the breakup
of the Soviet Union.
So there's all these things.
Now, people immediately
point out all the little wars
that are going on.
>> Oh, yes.
>> But, you know,
those have to come up.
They've been ancient
feelings of feuds and hatreds
and resentments.
As a spiritual energy comes
in, it pushes all the things
unlike it to the surface so
that they could be healed.
>> And they need to be, so
that's what is happening then.
>> Yes.
They're playing out
those old things.
They are being released.
That energy is being released
so that it can all be healed.
But groups have formed
around the world
doing wonderful things that
they weren't doing before.
We're starting to hear
these ideas from pulpits
that would have never
spoken them before,
from organizations and
governments that never thought
this way before.
>> And had you ever thought,
when you were on that airplane
flying back from Alabama, of how
overwhelming it would be from
the very beginning?
And it is an annual event.
>> Yes it is.
>> Some people call it a
Festival of Synchronicity,
because it is at the
same time, as you said,
but a global mind-link
is the other way.
But it is the power of the
energy of all the people coming
together for the same purpose.
>> It really is.
And some people do it by
themselves in their homes.
Some people come together with
organizations or other groups.
And it doesn't
matter how you do.
It goes back to this idea
that energy follows thought.
What we're really doing
is we're sending energy
into the group-- race
consciousness, which
starts to make a change there.
It's lightening up.
It's brightening up.
The dark pockets
are being dissolved
so that we can live in harmony.
>> Oh.
That is absolutely beautiful.
You have served the planet
very well with that.
And we thank you, Jan Price,
for the beauty of what
you have done and the role
that you play with the Quartus
Foundation, with the book
that you have shared, too.
And again, that is "The
Other Side of Death."
So you have come back
to be our teacher.
And we would like
you to know how
you can be in touch
with Jan if you would
like at Quartus Foundation.
And we would love to
hear from you also
here, "Living in
Balance on Shakti-Hill."
So we will be right back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So Jan Price has shared
her wisdom and her light.
She is a woman of vision.
She has also brought
information to us
from a higher realm that
can help heal our lives,
and also working for the
planet on a daily basis, too.
Thank you for being
with us on Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]